		      Bouquet: a graph generator

Bouquet is a graph description generator written in Common Lisp. The
package accepts various Lisp objects as nodes and produces graph
descriptions in .tlp format, which can be later visualized in Tulip
(see http://www.tulip-software.org/). Tulip clusters and properties
are supported.

Bouquet is written by Eugene Zaikonnikov, and is distributed under the
terms of LLGPL (see LICENSE file for details).


			   Building Bouquet

Distribution tarball contains .asd system definition file, and several
.lisp source files. To compile and load Bouquet, launch your
ASDF-enabled Lisp and perfrom (asdf:oos 'asdf:load-op :bouquet) in the
REPL.

To test the package, try (bouquet:test).

Bouquet was tested with CMU CL 18e, but is expected to run with other
mostly-ANSI-conforming Lisps.


			    Using Bouquet

Below is a short description of package API. To familiarise with Tulip
concepts, see http://www.tulip-software.org.

Bouquet maintains current graph instance in graph cache which is
manipulated via set of interface functions. The interface functions
implicitly use the graph instance currently registered in the graph
cache: for most cases, it is more convenient and succinct.

The interface functions (exported from BOUQUET package) are:

(NEW-GRAPH): Instantiates a new graph and stores it in the graph
cache. Also, default "Label" property is created for node labels.

(CURRENT-GRAPH): Returns the current graph instance.

(NODE <object>): Returns graph node instance associated with the
'object', or NIL if none found.

(REGISTER-NODE <object>): Creates node instance and associates it with
the 'object'.

(REGISTER-NODE-UNLESS-EXISTS <object>): Registers object as node
unless it is already registered.

(EDGE <from> <to>): Looks up for a directed edge from object 'from' to
object 'to'. If successful, the edge instance is returned, otherwise
NIL.

(REGISTER-EDGE <from> <to>): Registers a directed edge from *node
instance* 'from' to node instance 'to'.

(MAKE-CLUSTER <name> &optional <nodes> <edges> &key <subclusters>):
Instantiates a cluster 'name' with optional nodes and edges; the
cluster can also contain subclusters (also cluster instances).

(CLUSTER <name>): Looks up cluster instance by name string.

(ADD-TO-CLUSTER <cluster> <entry>): Adds a node or edge instance to
cluster instance. 

(MAKE-PROPERTY <name> <cluster> <type> &optional <nodes-default>
<edges-default>): Instantiates a property 'name' (string) associated
with cluster number 'cluster' (implicit top-level cluster is 0) of
type 'type'. Optional defaults for edges and nodes can be provided.

(PROPERTY <name>): Looks up property instance by namestring.

(SET-PROPERTY <property> <entry> <value>): Associates 'entry' (an edge
or node instance) with its 'value' for the 'property' (a property
instance).

(LABEL <entry> <value>): set entry's text label to 'value' (a string
or a symbol; if latter, the label is assigned it's
symbol-name). Manipulates the default "Labels" property.

(RENDER-GRAPH &optional <stream>): Prints current graph in .tlp format
to 'stream'; if none provided, *standard-output* is used.

